Title: Funding Request: Celo Public Goods Budget - H1 2024
Authors: Luuk Weber & Monty Bryant

Summary
Amidst the ever-evolving Web3 landscape, Celo stands at a pivotal point where identifying and nurturing its public goods is more crucial than ever to sustain growth, development, and adoption. This proposal validates a Celo Public Goods budget for the first half of 2024 (H1) alongside electing the first Public Goods Stewards that will administer these resources efficiently, enhance coordination, and support the growth of the Celo ecosystem.

The Stewards will provide critical community-led leadership, governance, communication, operations, and accounting support. This includes leading the operations of programs such as Celo native quadratic and retroactive funding rounds and streamlining funding distribution to Celo public good initiatives such as Celo Regional DAOs, Celo Project Incubation, and Celo Grants through Public Goods project proposals in the to be established Celo Snapshot space. Celo voters will receive voting power equal to their current voting power in Celo Governance and will vote which projects receive funding. For this initiative, we request a budget of up to 1,600,000 cUSD and 700,000 CELO from the Celo Community Treasury to be allocated during the H1 period, as detailed in this proposal.
Motivation
Supporting Celo Public Goods is essential to realizing Celo’s vision of scaling Ethereum with real-world solutions and fostering prosperity for all. These assets provide non-excludable value to all Celo stakeholders and are integral to building a regenerative economy for Celo and humanity.


The current surge in digital public goods innovation, highlighted by Gitcoin's large-scale public goods funding and the Optimism Collective's retrospective funding models (RPGF), underscores the importance of nurturing public goods. It is the key to maintaining a flywheel of ecosystem growth. Yet amidst the ongoing transition to CEL2, current Celo ecosystem funding and governance mechanisms are emerging as constraints to this essential growth and support. Current CELO distribution from the Community Treasury Contract faces complex procedures, on-chain limitations and lacks advanced accounting tools. Other impacts have included governance fatigue for Celo token holders, reduced access to capital for new and existing community ventures on Celo, and a lack of cohesive coordination and accountability.


We propose electing the first Celo Public Goods Stewards to address these challenges. Aimed at streamlining coordination and resource allocation, the Stewards will tackle these bottlenecks, guiding critical public good programs through clear leadership, governance, communication, and accounting. For this proposal, we suggest a six-month initial budget period, balancing the uncertainty of CEL2's evolution with the immediate development needs.


This initiative is more than a strategic move; it's vital for Celo's progression alongside CEL2, ensuring the community-led ecosystem remains dynamic, innovative, and efficient.
Specifications
Outcomes and Deliverables
The Celo Public Goods Stewards have set out multiple outcomes and related deliverables to guide its operations in the coming period. 

Outcome
Category
Deliverable
Due Date
Create the Celo Public Goods Snapshot and Voting Strategy
Governance
Create and manage the Celo Public Goods Snapshot space. Develop the Locked Celo Snapshot voting strategy. 
January 22nd, 2024
Update Celo Governance Documentation
Governance
Identify and update all Celo Governance Documentation and Forum sections to match the updated Governance Guidelines. 
January 31st, 2024
Celo Governance Guardians
Governance
Guide proposers through the Celo Governance Guidelines, and support Governance discourse and voting participation. Iterate on the Celo Governance Guidelines to improve the effectiveness and resiliency over time. 
30th of June, 2024
Develop Celo Public Goods Web Platform
Communication
Develop a web platform for all Celo Community and Public Goods resources. 
February 28th, 2024
Celo Public Goods Communication
Communication
Communicate all Celo Public Goods updates and programs through various media platforms. Creating meaningful documents, guides, and blogs.
30th of June, 2024
Manage Celo Public Goods Multi-sig
Accounting
Operations and management of the Celo Public Goods Multi-sig wallet, including custody, accounting, and distribution of resources.
30th of June, 2024
Publish Monthly Treasury Reports of the H1 budget and Community Treasury
Accounting
Create and publish monthly progress and treasury reports for the Celo Public Goods Initiative and Celo Community Treasury.  
30th of June, 2024
Celo Public Goods Quadratic Funding Round
Program
Plan and organize a Celo Public Goods Quadratic Funding round on Gitcoin Grants on Celo Mainnet. 
30th of May, 2024
Climate Quadratic Funding Round
Program
Plan and organize participation in the Climate  Solution round on Gitcoin Grants on Celo Mainnet.
30th of May, 2024
Retrospective Celo Public Goods Funding
Program
Plan and organize a Retrospective Public Goods Funding campaign on Celo Mainnet.
30th of June, 2024



Budget 
Below is a breakdown of the CGPC operation budget and proposed Celo Public Goods budget for the period of January 1st - June 30th, 2024. The Celo Public Goods Steward operations will be coordinated by the Regenerative Finance Foundation, a non-profit foundation with a mandate to support the experimentation and growth of Regenerative Finance, chaired by Luuk Weber.

Celo Public Goods Operations Budget 
Item
Description
Amount allocated
Public Goods Operations by Stewards
Budget for coordinating stakeholders, accounting, reporting, and supporting all groups funded by the Celo Public Good Budget for H1. 
70,000 cUSD + 100,000 CELO 
Governance Guardians
Budget for active Celo Governance Guardians. Supporting existing Governance operations through the Governance Guidelines and improving the Guidelines over time. 
30,000 cUSD
Celo Public Goods Platform and Communication
Development and maintenance of Celopg.eco - a community-native site with key Celo Public Good and Governance resources. Costs for running the Celo Public Goods communication in line with Celo brand assets and voice. 
25,000 cUSD
Celo QF and RPGF 
Budget for design, planning, and execution support for the Celo Quadratic Funding and Retrospective Public Good Funding programs. 
25,000 cUSD
TOTAL
150,000 cUSD + 100,000 CELO



Celo Public Good Budget for H1, 2024, to be submitted individually in 2024
Item
Description
Max amount allocated
Regional DAOs
Budget for operating the Celo Regional DAOs that support growth and development in key geographic regions. 
500,000 cUSD
Celo Project Incubation
Budget for incubating new and existing projects on Celo. 
325,000 cUSD + 100,000 CELO
Celo Grants and Requests For Proposals 
​Budget for running Celo-native grants and identifying and funding requests for proposals.
500,000 cUSD
QF and RPGF Rounds
​Budget for running Celo Quadric Funding rounds and a Retrospective Public Goods initiative on Gitcoin Grants stack on Celo in Q2 2024. 
125,000 cUSD + 500,000 CELO
TOTAL
1.450,000 cUSD + 600,000 CELO

Combining the CPG operating costs of 150,000 cUSD + 100,000 CELO with the proposed Celo Public Good Budget of 1,450,000 cUSD + 600,000 CELO comes to a total budget of 1,600,000 cUSD + 700,000 CELO requested to be sent to the Celo Public Goods Multisig. 
Operations Logistics
The CPG budget will administer these proposals (listed above) through a 5 out of 9 multisig Safe managed by a diverse set of Celo-aligned stewards. At the same time, all assets within the CPG Multisig will remain under the ownership of the Celo Community Treasury, with Celo Governance retaining the right to request the return of assets to the Celo Community Treasury at any point and a fixed deadline for returning unallocated resources by July 31st, 2024. 

Beyond the multisig, the specific allocation of the H1 budget will be governed through a Celo Public Goods Snapshot with a single active strategy based on the same locked Celo balances as used in the Celo Governance Contracts, providing community governance with decision-making power weighted according to locked Celo. Resources will be allocated on a first-pass basis up to the category limits as indicated above. Proposers are encouraged to add funding milestones and clear objectives to their proposals. 

To uphold transparency and foster open dialogue on the advancements and status of each Celo Public Good initiative, the CPGC will create and publish monthly progress reports in the Celo Forum to ensure all activities and progress are communicated effectively.
Celo Governance Stewards Overview
The initial Celo Governance Stewards are proposed because they each provided input in the Celo Public Goods proposal and played significant roles in the Celo community over the past year. In the next six months, the Celo Public Goods Stewards will create guidelines for electing new Stewards in potential future Public Goods Cycles. 

Program Lead and Steward: Luuk Weber - Twitter
Founder of Kolektivo Labs and Lead of Celo Europe DAO S0. Building DAOs since 2018, and active in the Celo ecosystem since 2020. 


Steward: Monty Bryant - Twitter
Founder of ReFiDAO, the largest active ReFi network. Coordinated multiple Gitcoin rounds as part of ReFiDAO and supported Celo since 2021. 


Steward: Daniel Olarte - Twitter
OG Celo Contributor and current DevRel at Celo. Has deep involvement in the Celo ecosystem and is involved in the development of Celo Station.


Steward: Juan Giraldo - Twitter
Active CGP editor of Celo Governance and co-founder of multiple ReFi initiatives, including ReFiMedelin and Celo Colombia. Plays an active role in Celo Governance and community operations. 

Steward: Sophia Dew - Twitter
Former contributor to Gitcoin and engineer at Public Goods Network. Has a deep technical understanding and good relationship in the OP Stack ecosystem and varios Public Goods initiatives.

In addition to the active stewards who will provide hands-on support to the operations of Celo Public Goods, four passive Stewards are elected who provide multisig oversight and strategic input.

Passive Steward: Pedro Oliveira - Twitter
Founder of Talent Protocol. Serial entrepreneur who has actively built and supported Celo's growth since launching the initial Talent Protocol on Celo in 2021. 


Passive Steward: Aaron Boyd - Twitter
Co-founder of Prezenti. Software engineer, start-up founder, and grumpy old man actually reading the content of governance proposals in the forum.

Passive Steward: Marco Barbosa - Twitter
Co-founder of Impact Market and Celo Europe DAO. Actively developing and promoting Celo for multiple years. Operates as a Validator and is dedicated to building successful Public Goods, starting with Impact Market. 

Passive Steward: Maya Brown  - Twitter
COO of Prezenti and CGP editor. Decades of experience in the impact program and portfolio management. 
Action Plan
When this proposal is passed, the following actions will be taken:
- The Celo Public Goods Multi-sig will be established, and each signor will make a public vouch validating their address and committing to respecting Celo Governance’s jurisdiction.
- The Celo Public Goods snapshot space and locked Celo voting Strategy will be created.
- Guidelines are published for Celo Public Goods Proposals
- As soon as the three points above are met, Celo Public Good Proposals can be submitted to the Snapshot space. 
- When proposals are passed, they will be funded based on the defined payment terms in their proposal until July 20th, 2024.

The Celo Public Goods Stewards will execute all tasks related to the initiatives as indicated in this proposal. Every month, starting in February, the Celo Public Goods Stewards will publish a report covering the state of the Celo Community Treasury and the progress of the Celo Public Goods initiative.
Risk Considerations
Below is a breakdown of identified risks and how they are mitigated.
Centralization Risk: By establishing the Celo Public Goods Multisig, some centralization risk is created as a smaller group of individuals have custody over some Celo Community Treasury resources. These risks are reduced by having a diverse set of individuals with major skin in the game involved, providing monthly reports backed by on-chain data, allowing the Celo Community Treasury through Celo Governance to redeem its assets at any point, and committing to return any left-over resources by July 31st latest. 

Budget Deficit Risk: By adding a spending cap on certain categories, Celo might potentially miss out on funding valuable initiatives that weren’t proposed in time or exceed the available budget. This risk is reduced by weeks of conversations with the groups who were previously funded by the Celo Community Treasury to have reasonable indications of budget requirements.
